hello everyone and welcome to this
tutorial today I'm going to be showing
you the ways you can run scripts in both
After Effects and Premiere Pro there are
several methods we can use to run
scripts and they're quite simple but
it's a good thing to just have it
cataloged and to teach each of you the
various methods you can use to basically
run any kind of script in the programs
this can change how you're going to
debug things but overall this should
help you figure out which method works
best for you so we're just going to dive
straight into this because it's a pretty
simple tutorial and we're just going to
first start with After Effects so what
are the ways we can run scripts in After
Effects and one thing is if you're using
visual studio code for any of your
coding and debugging in either of these
programs one thing to note is the Adobe
script Runner extension by renderton I
believe is completely not working for
Mac now and is no longer no longer going
to be available on the marketplace
because of a potential copyright claim
so that is one method that I'm going to
talk about but is maybe not going to be
applicable forever
but we'll go ahead and start off with
something different and that is running
through extend script this is the tried
and true method for running basically
scripts in any program that you have
installed if you're not familiar you can
get extend script through the Creative
Cloud app and for example we'll start
with After Effects
um we have a basic script here we're
going to use for all of our examples
today just alert running a script we're
just going to run a simple alert because
that's going to work in any of the
programs that you could be running
scripts in
so we have After Effects loaded up right
here we're going to go ahead and change
the extend script program to whatever
version of After Effects this is in my
case 2023 if successful you'll see this
green link and if it's broken or red you
can try and click on it to enable it
like that but there are other cases
where it won't run for example if you
have Visual Studio code already up and
running with extend script debugger
going that can cause an issue so if you
for some reason can't connect to After
Effects where you can't connect to your
Adobe program and extend script I
believe I made a separate video for this
but just remember to close your
application Adobe application close
Visual Studio code and then launch
extend script first so it kind of has
the admin rights sort of or the priority
to run the script so we're now connected
to After Effects CC 2013 we'll hit the
play button and boom we've run our
script super simple and that's the tried
and true way and the most original way
to run scripts in app After Effects
the next way is from within After
Effects itself if we go to file scripts
run script file you'll actually have
needed to save your script in this case
I haven't saved this particular script
but in Visual Studio code I have a one
to one which I saved here
and it's just the same thing running a
script so I'll select that from wherever
I saved on my computer and just like
that it runs our script
the last way we can run our scripts for
After Effects is using visual studio
code extension wise you will need the
Adobe created extend script debugger
this basically offers you all the same
functionality offered through
extendscript itself however inside of vs
code people have had issues before
running this in various ways and there's
lots of basically Forum posts and
documentation on trying to figure that
out as well on the debugger page itself
you can see they have tons of details on
everything you can do from running
troubleshooting to debugging all the
things that aren't supported like
profiling object model viewer
autocomplete and the scripts panel but
other than that it's going to work just
fine basically the way it works is you
load your scripts you select the target
application in this case we have After
Effects 2023
and as you can see you can sometimes get
this number 15 can't initialize Target
that is the error most people are going
to get
so because there is sort of this
conflict between running extend script
and vs code at the same time A lot of
times we have to basically close the
programs
relaunch BS code in this case and I'll
go and relaunch After Effects as well
select your target application in this
case again CC 2014 After Effects
and now that we see that it's connected
here we want to go over to the run and
debug section to make sure it's all set
up we basically just have to hit run and
debug with our script selected
you can see it's starting it in the
after effects main engine according to
the output and you can see in After
Effects we have a alert running a script
and two two two two so using that we can
then you know go in and modify our code
maybe we just want this
one alert here we run in debug and we
get our updates so sometimes there can
be conflicts between extend script and
vs code you basically want to choose one
or the other if you're using the extend
script debugger in vs code
so one other thing I wanted to mention
that I mentioned briefly is the
extension called Adobe script Runner by
render Tom this is again possibly not
available when you're watching this but
you can always go into the extensions
and see if it's available what this
allows us to do is load up our script
hit F1 and type in the application we
want to launch it in so maybe we want
illustrator Photoshop After Effects beta
even in this case just after effects and
we'll choose the most recent version of
After Effects and in this case run our
script again I don't know how this is
going to play out in the future but it's
also one other option you have you can
now move on to the ways to run scripts
in Premiere first we're going to start
off with the same thing as the after
effects example that is running it
through extendscript we can choose
Premiere Pro in this case 2023 make sure
we have the green link symbol again if
it's red and unbroken you can click it
and it should work if it's still not
make sure you have all your vs code
instances closed then we can just simply
hit the play button
and we will get our simple alerts in
this case you can make updates save it
run it again and see what those changes
look like
and because we're now going to use vs
code for the next example I'm going to
close extend script and that should
actually be enough I believe we
shouldn't have to close Premiere every
single time we have this script we're
going to choose uh Target application in
this case it allows us to select
Premiere Pro 2023 you can see we're now
connected using new world and we'll hit
run and debug in the run and debug
section of vs code
and as you can see we now are running
our script successfully
I'm still a stickler about using extend
script because I've been using that for
over 10 years now but these variables
and watch and call stack availabilities
inside of vs code are super helpful and
a much more modern way and of course you
have dark mode
for some reason the previous two methods
aren't going to work for you you can
always run an extension which will run a
script in this case I just have basic
extension testing code
so I've gone ahead and stripped out most
of my extension code but I have this
init function where I'm going to add a
new CS interface
interface.eval Scripts
what script function are we going to
evaluate we'll just call one called the
Knits
you're not familiar with extensions I
have plenty of tutorials on them but
basically we have this bridge between
the extensions and scripting called CS
interface and allows us to evaluate a
script function with a certain name so
we can just say function init
and have some alerts inside of there
save it and now when we run this
extension testing you can see we get
hello inside of the jsx now so you can
use uh basically an extension to have a
nice UI and then run some code in it but
the reason sometimes we opt to use this
instead of the other options is because
there's no file scripts run script icon
inside of Premiere we just have the
choice of using extensions extend script
or vs code so that's kind of one option
as well especially if you have like a
list of scripts you want to run you can
pile them into buttons inside of here
run the function specifically inside of
your main JS name it whatever you want
and then run that code
if you're still not sure which to use
basically use extend script or vs code
the extend script program is old but it
still works it does have some issues on
Mac so if you're on Mac you are more
likely to have to use a vs code and the
extend script debugger and if you're new
I definitely recommend learning the
extend script debugger as well because
it basically is the more futuristic way
of doing things it is going to have more
support in the future especially extend
scripts kind of old news and it just is
going to give you a more modern approach
to everything
but that's gonna do it for this video
guys I hope you enjoyed those are all
the ways to run scripts in Adobe After
Effects and Premiere Pro thanks for
watching and we'll see you next time
[Music]
foreign